














   1mX Display Power Management Signaling (DPMS) Extension0m

		   1mLibrary Specification0m



			Version 1.0
		  X Project Team Standard
		 X Version 11, Release 6.4






			Rob Lembree
		    4mlembree@zk3.dec.com0m
	       Digital Equipment Corporation
		       24 April 1996






































Copyright © Digital Equipment Corporation, 1996

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in all copies.  Digital Equipment Corporation
makes no representations about the suitability for any pur-
pose of the information in this document.  This documenta-
tion is provided ``as is'' without express or implied war-
ranty.
























































1m1.  Overview0m

This extension provides X Protocol control over the VESA
Display Power Management Signaling (DPMS) characteristics of
video boards under control of the X Window System.

Traditionally, the X Window System has provided for both
blanking and non-blanking screen savers.  Timeouts associ-
ated with these built-in screen saver mechanisms are limited
to idle (dwell) time, and a change timeout that specifies
the change interval for non-blanking screen savers.

The United States' Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Energy Star program requires that monitors power down after
some idle time by default.  While it is possible to simply
overload the existing screen saver timeouts, this solution
leaves the non-privileged user little to no control over the
DPMS characteristics of his or her system.  For example,
disabling DPMS would require some unintended side effect in
the core screen saver, such as disabling the changing of a
non-blanking screen saver.  Providing clients with this con-
trol requires an extension to the core X Window System Pro-
tocol, and this extension seeks to fill this gap.

There are four power levels specified by the Video Electron-
ics Standards Association (VESA) Display Power Management
Signaling (DPMS) standard.  These are mapped onto the X DPMS
Extension like this:


4mDPMS24m 4mExtension24m 4mPower24m 4mLevels0m
  0	       DPMSModeOn	   In use
  1	       DPMSModeStandby	   Blanked, low power
  2	       DPMSModeSuspend	   Blanked, lower power
  3	       DPMSModeOff	   Shut off, awaiting activity



1m2.  DPMS Functions0m

4mDPMSQueryExtension0m


Bool DPMSQueryExtension (4mdisplay,24m 4mevent_base,24m 4merror_base24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m
	 int 4m*event_base,24m 4m*error_base;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.
4mevent_base24m	    Specifies the return location for the
assigned base event
-----------
1. 4mX24m 4mWindow24m 4mSystem24m is a trademark of X Consortium,
Inc.



			      1m10m





1mDisplay Power Management Signaling (DPMS) Extension0m


4merror_base24m	    Specifies the return location for the
assigned base error


The DPMSQueryExtension function queries the X server to
determine the availability of the DPMS Extension.  If the
extension is available, the return value is TRUE, and
4mevent_base24m and 4merror_base24m are set to the base event number
and base error number for the extension, respectively.	Oth-
erwise, the return value is FALSE, and the values of
4mevent_base24m and 4merror_base24m are undefined.


4mDPMSGetVersion0m


Status DPMSGetVersion(4mdisplay,24m 4mmajor_version,24m 4mminor_version24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m
	 int	 4m*major_version,24m 4m*minor_version;0m

4mdisplay24m	    Specifies the connection to the X server.
4mmajor_version24m  Specifies the return location for the exten-
sion major version.
4mminor_version24m  Specifies the return location for the exten-
sion minor version.


The DPMSGetVersion function returns the version of the DPMS
extension implemented by the X server.	The version is
returned in 4mmajor_version24m and 4mminor_version24m.	The major ver-
sion and minor version for this specification are '1' and
'1', respectively.  The major version will be incremented
for protocol incompatible changes, and the minor version
will be incremented for small, upwardly compatible changes.


4mDPMSCapable0m


Bool DPMSCapable(4mdisplay24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.


The DPMSCapable function returns the DPMS capability of the
X server, either TRUE (capable of DPMS) or FALSE (incapable
of DPMS).  The capability of an X server is implementation
defined.  For example, if a multi-headed  X server is capa-
ble of DPMS on one head, and incapable on another, the truth
value of this function is defined by the X server implemen-
tation.



			      1m20m





1mDisplay Power Management Signaling (DPMS) Extension0m


4mDPMSSetTimeouts0m



Status DPMSSetTimeouts(4mdisplay,24m 4mstandby,24m 4msuspend,24m 4moff24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m
	 CARD16 4mstandby,24m 4msuspend,24m 4moff;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.
4mstandby24m   Specifies the new standby timeout in seconds.
4msuspend24m   Specifies the new suspend timeout in seconds.
4moff24m       Specifies the new off timeout in seconds.


The DPMSSetTimeouts function permits applications to set the
timeout values used by the X server for DPMS timings.

The value 4mstandby24m is the amount of time of inactivity in
seconds before standby mode is invoked. The actual effects
of this mode are implementation defined, but in the case of
DPMS compliant hardware, it is implemented by shutting off
the horizontal sync signal, and pulsing the vertical sync
signal.	 Standby mode provides the quickest monitor recovery
time.  Note also that many monitors implement this mode
identically to suspend mode.  A value of zero disables this
mode.

The value 4msuspend24m is the amount of time of inactivity in
seconds before the second level of power savings is invoked.
Suspend mode's physical and electrical characteristics are
implementation defined, but in DPMS compliant hardware,
results in the pulsing of the horizontal sync signal, and
shutting off of the vertical sync signal.  Suspend mode
recovery is considered to be slower than standby mode, but
faster than off mode, however this is monitor dependent.  As
noted above, many monitors implement this mode identically
to standby mode.  A value of zero disables this mode.

The value 4moff24m is the amount of time of inactivity in seconds
before the third and final level of power savings is
invoked. Off mode's physical and electrical characteristics
are implementation defined, but in DPMS compliant hardware,
is implemented by shutting off both horizontal and vertical
sync signals, resulting in the power-down of the monitor.
Recovery time is implementation dependant, but frequently is
similar to the power-up time of the monitor.  A value of
zero disables this mode.

Chronologically, standby mode occurs before or simultane-
ously with suspend mode, and suspend mode must occur before
or simultaneously with off mode.  Therefore, non-zero mode
timeout values must be greater than or equal to the timeout
values of earlier modes.  If inconsistent values are



			      1m30m





1mDisplay Power Management Signaling (DPMS) Extension0m


supplied, a BadValue error will result.


4mDPMSGetTimeouts0m



Bool DPMSGetTimeouts(4mdisplay,24m 4mstandby,24m 4msuspend,24m 4moff24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m
	 CARD16 4m*standby,24m 4m*suspend,24m 4m*off;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.
4mstandby24m   Specifies the current standby timeout in seconds.
4msuspend24m   Specifies the current suspend timeout in seconds.
4moff24m       Specifies the current off timeout in seconds.


The DPMSGetTimeouts function retrieves the timeout values
used by the X server for DPMS timings.

The value 4mstandby24m is the amount of time of inactivity in
seconds before standby mode is invoked. A value of zero
indicates that this mode has been disabled.

The value 4msuspend24m is the amount of time of inactivity in
seconds before the second level of power savings is invoked.
A value of zero indicates that this mode has been disabled.

The value 4moff24m is the amount of time of inactivity in seconds
before the third and final level of power savings is
invoked. A value of zero indicates that this mode has been
disabled.


4mDPMSEnable0m



Status DPMSEnable(4mdisplay24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.


The DPMSEnable function enables DPMS on the specified dis-
play.  When enabled, DPMS will use the currently saved time-
out values, and will invoke the DPMS power mode appropriate
for the amount of time that the workstation input devices
have been idle.	 If DPMSEnable is invoked on a display with
DPMS already enabled, no change is made, and no error is
returned.  If DPMSEnable is invoked on a display without
support for DPMS, no change is made and no error is



			      1m40m





1mDisplay Power Management Signaling (DPMS) Extension0m


returned.


4mDPMSDisable0m



Status DPMSDisable(4mdisplay24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.


The DPMSDisable function disables DPMS on the specified dis-
play.  When disabled, DPMS returns the display to DPMSMod-
eOn.  If DPMSDisable is invoked on a display with DPMS
already disabled, no change is made, and no error is
returned.  If DPMSDisable is invoked on a display without
support for DPMS, no change is made and no error is
returned.


4mDPMSForceLevel0m



Status DPMSForceLevel(4mdisplay,24m 4mlevel24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m
	 CARD16 4mlevel;0m

4mdisplay24m   Specifies the connection to the X server.
4mlevel24m     Specifies the level to force power to.


The DPMSForceLevel function forces a DPMS capable display
into the specified power level.	 The 4mlevel24m must be one of
DPMSModeOn, DPMSModeStandby, DPMSModeSuspend, or DPMSMode-
Off.  Values other than these will result in a BadValue
error.	If DPMS is disabled on the display, a BadMatch pro-
tocol error will result.


4mDPMSInfo0m



Status DPMSInfo(4mdisplay,24m 4mpower_level,24m 4mstate24m)

	 Display 4m*display;0m
	 CARD16 4m*power_level;0m
	 BOOL 4m*state;0m




			      1m50m





1mDisplay Power Management Signaling (DPMS) Extension0m


4mdisplay24m	    Specifies the connection to the X server.
4mpower_level24m	 Specifies the current power level.
4mstate24m		 Specifies the current DPMS state


The DPMSInfo function returns information about the current
DPMS state.  The 4mstate24m return parameter indicates whether or
not DPMS is enabled (TRUE) or disabled (FALSE).	 The
4mpower_level24m return parameter indicates the current power
level (one of DPMSModeOn, DPMSModeStandby, DPMSModeSuspend,
or DPMSModeOff.)














































			      1m60m


